### Introduction

#### About This Document

In [Getting Started](Getting-Started.md) document, a new sample
project is created named "**Acme.PhoneBook**". This document is a guide
while developing your project. We definitely suggest to read this
document before starting to the development. Since ASP.NET Zero is built
on [ASP.NET Boilerplate](https://aspnetboilerplate.com/) application
framework, this document highly refers it's
[documentation](https://aspnetboilerplate.com/Pages/Documents).

Before reading this document, it's suggested to run the application and
explore the user interface. This will help you to have a better
understanding of concepts defined here.

About Server Side

This document is only for the **Angular** application. For **server
side**, see [ASP.NET Core documentation](Development-Guide-Core.md)
too.

#### Pre Requirements

Following tools are needed in order to use the solution:

-   [nodejs 6.9+ and Npm 3.10+](https://nodejs.org)
-   [Typescript 2.0+](https://www.typescriptlang.org/)
-   [yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/)

In addition, see [ASP.NET Core](Development-Guide-Core.md)
documentation for server side requirements and other server side
features.

##### IDE

It's suggested to use an IDE to develop your project. We used [Visual
Studio 2017](https://www.visualstudio.com), but you can use VS Code or
any other IDE/Editor you like (VS Code, for instance). You can also use
any OS you like (MacOS/Linux/Windows).

### Overall

#### Architecture

The diagram below shows the overall architecture:

<img src="images/angular2-core-overall-architecture.png" alt="Angular ASP.NET Core Architecture Overall" class="thumbnail" width="683" height="163" />

-   **Angular** project is designed so it can be **deployed separately**
    from the backend ASP.NET Core solution, to a different port in same
    server or to a different server. When it's deployed, it's actually a
    plan HTML+JS+CSS web application that can be served on any operating
    system and any web server.
-   **Angular** solution consists of 2 fundamental modules:
    -   **AccountModule** is for login, register, remember password and
        so on. It's mainly used to authenticate a user using
        TokenAuthController in the server side.
    -   **AppModule** is for authenticated users. Once a user logged in
        successfully, they are redirected to the main application.
        Communication performed via AJAX requests using header based
        token authentication.
-   **ASP.NET Core** solution does not have any HTML, JS or CSS code. It
    simply provides end points for token based authentication and to use
    the application services.

#### Angular Solution

Entrance point of the Angular solution is src/**main.ts**. It simply
bootstraps the root [Angular
module](https://angular.io/docs/ts/latest/guide/ngmodule.html):
**RootModule**. Fundamental modules of the solution are shown below:

<img src="images/ng2-modules.png" alt="Angular 2 modules" class="img-thumbnail" width="501" height="221" />

-   **RootModule** is responsible to bootstrap the application.
-   **AccountModule** provides login, two factor authentication,
    register, password forget/reset, email activation...
    functionalities. It's [lazy
    loaded](https://angular.io/docs/ts/latest/guide/router.html).
-   **AppModule** is just to group application modules and provide a
    base layout. It contains 2 sub modules:
    -   **AdminModule** contains pages like user management, role
        management, tenant management, language management, settings and
        so on. It's lazy loaded.
    -   **MainModule** is the main module to develop your own
        application. It only contains a demo dashboard page which you
        can modify or delete. It's suggested to divide your application
        into smaller modules like we did in the startup project, instead
        of adding all functionality into the main module. It's lazy
        loaded.

Fundamental modules have their own **routes**. For example;
AccountModule views start with "**/account**" (like "/account/login"),
AdminModule views starts with "**/app/admin**" (like
"/app/admin/users"). Angular's router lazy loads modules based on their
url. For instance, when you request a url starts with "app/admin", the
AdminModule and all it's components are loaded. They are not loaded if
you don't request those pages. That brings better startup time (and also
better development time since they are independently splitted to
chunks).

In addition to those fundamental modules, there are some share modules:

-   app/shared/common/**app-common.module**: a common module used by
    main and admin modules as shared functionality.
-   shared/common/**common.module**: A common module used by account and
    app modules (and their sub modules).
-   shared/utils/**utils.module**: Another common module used by all
    modules (and their sub modules). We tried to collect general purpose
    code here those can be used even in different applications.
-   shared/service-proxies/**service-proxy.module**: Auto generated
    nswag code. It's used to communicate to backend ASP.NET Core API. We
    will see "how to generate automatic proxies" later.

#### Configuration

Angular solution contains src/assets/**appconfig.json** file which
contains some configuration for the client side:

-   **remoteServiceBaseUrl**: Used to configure base address of the
    server side APIs. Default value: http://localhost:22742
-   **appBaseUrl**: Used to configure base address of the client
    application. Default value: http://localhost:4200

**appBaseUrl** is configured since we use it to define format of our
URL. If we want to use tenancy name as subdomain for a multi-tenant
application then we can define **appBaseUrl** as

http://**{TENANCY\_NAME}**.mydomain.com

{TENANCY\_NAME} is the place holder here for tenant names. Tenancy name
can also be configured for **remoteServiceBaseUrl** as similar. To make
tenancy name subdomains properly work, we should also make two
configurations beside the application:

1.  We should configure DNS to redirect all subdomains to a static IP
    address. To declare 'all subdomains', we can use wildcard like
    **\*.mydomain.com**.
2.  We should configure IIS to bind this static IP to our application.

There may be other ways of doing it but this is the most simple way.

### AccountModule

**AccountModule** provides **login**, **register**, **forgot password**
and **email activation** pages and located under src/account folder:

<img src="images/ng2-account-module-files.png" alt="Account Module Angular 2" class="thumbnail" width="252" height="217" />

**account.component** is the root component of account.module.
**account-routing.module** defines routes for the account application.

#### Login

Default route for AccountModule is the login/**login.component**:

<img src="images/login-screen-3.png" alt="Login page" class="img-thumbnail" />

The **tenant selection** section above login section is shown only in a
**multi-tenant** application and if "tenancy name detection" is **not
possible from url** (for example, if you use subdomain as tenancy names,
no need to show a tenant selection). When we click Change link, tenant
change dialog appears and we can change the tenant. There is a single
tenant named **Default** in the initial database.Â Leave tenancy name
input as blank to login as **host**.

We can use **admin** user name and **123qwe** password in first run the
application. At first login, we should change admin password since
123qwe is not very secure:

<img src="images/account-change-password-1.png" alt="Change password" class="img-thumbnail" />

After changing password we are redirected to the **application**
(app.module).

#### Social Logins

Social logins can be enabled and configured from
[backend](Development-Guide-Core.md). Once they are properly
configured, they are automatically shown in the user interface.
login/**login.service** implements client side logic for social logins.
Note that currently only **Facebook** and **Google** authentication is
implemented for Angular2 application. Microsoft and Twitter logins are
on the road map.

#### Two Factor Login

ASP.NET Zero is ready to provide two factor login, but it's disabled as
default. You can easily enable it in host settings page (in Security
tab):

<img src="images/lockout-two-factor-settings-1.png" class="img-thumbnail" />

Note: In a multi-tenant application, two factor authentication is
available to tenants only if it's enabled in the host settings. Also,
email verification and SMS verification settings are only available in
the host side. This is by design.

When it's enabled, user is asked to select a verification provider after
entering user name and password:

<img src="images/send-security-code-1.png" alt="Send security code" class="img-thumbnail" />

Then a **confirmation code** is sent to the selected provider and user
enters the code in the next page:

<img src="images/verify-security-code-1.png" alt="Verify security code" class="thumbnail" />

##### Email Verification

This is available if user has a confirmed email address. Since email
sending is disabled in debug mode, you can see the code in logs. In
release mode, email will be sent (You can change this from [server
side](Development-Guide-Core.md)).

##### SMS Verification

This is available if user has a confirmed phone number. SMS sending is
not implemented actually (because it requires an integration to an SMS
vendor). Current implementation just writes security code to logs. You
should complete **SmsSender** class in the [server
side](Development-Guide-Core.md) to make it usable. Otherwise, disable
SMS verification in the settings.

#### User Lockout

As seen in the previous section, you can configure user lockout
settings. Users are lockout when they enter wrong password for a
specified count and duration.

#### Register

When we click the "**Create Account**" link (which is only available for
tenants for multitenant applications) in the login page, a registration
form is shown:

<img src="images/registration-form-small-1.png" alt="Registration form" class="img-thumbnail" />

**Recaptcha** (security question) is optional. It uses Google's
recaptcha service. Recaptcha service works per domain. So, to make it
properly work, you should create your own private and public keys for
your domain on <https://www.google.com/recaptcha> and replace keys in
**appsettings.json** file in the [server side](Development-Guide-Core.md) and in the **appconfig.json** in the
client side.

#### Email Activation

When a user registers as shown above, an email confirmation code is sent
to his email address. If user did not receive this email for some
reason, they can click Email activation and re-send the confirmation
code.

<img src="images/email-activation-1.png" alt="Email activation" class="img-thumbnail" />

#### Forgot Password

If a user forgots his password, he can click the "Forgot Password" link
to get an email to reset the password.

<img src="images/forgot-password-1.png" alt="Forgot password" class="img-thumbnail" />

#### Tenant Registration

Tenant registration link is shown on the login form only if you are in
the host context. When you click to the link, a registration form is
shown:

<img src="images/tenant-signup-v3.png" alt="Tenant registration form" class="img-thumbnail" />

### AppModule

This is the actual application module which is entered by username and
password. You will mostly work on this application to add your business
requirements. A screenshot from the application:

<img src="images/dashboardV3.png" alt="Dashboard" class="img-thumbnail" width="1235" height="965" />

Folder structure of the source code is like that:

<img src="images/ng2-app-module.png" alt="Angular app module files" class="img-thumbnail" width="223" height="450" />

It consists of 3 sub modules as described before. **app.component** is
the root component for all views.

#### Main Menu and Layout

Menu and Layout files located under shared folder:

<img src="images/ng2-layout-files-1.png" alt="Angular layout files" class="img-thumbnail" />

Main menu is defined and rendered in **side-bar.component**. You can add
new menu items here. You generally relate a menu item to an Angular
route. Angular routes are defined in several modules:

-   app/admin/**admin-routing.module** defines routes for admin module.
-   app/main/**main-routing.module** defines routes for main module.
-   app/**app-routing.module** defines general routes and the default
    route.

#### Edition Management

*If you're not developing a multi-tenant application, you can skip this
section.*

Most **SaaS** (multi-tenant) applications have **editions** (packages)
those have different **features**. Thus, they can provide different
**price and feature options** to their tenants (customers). **Editions page** (available in host login) is used to manage application's
editions:

<img src="images/editions-page-core-4.png" alt="Editions Page" class="img-thumbnail" />

Editions are used to group feature values and assign to tenants. When we
click Actions/Edit for an edition, we can see it's poperties:

<img src="images/edition-edit-1.png" alt="Edit Edition" class="img-thumbnail" />

An edition can be free or paid. If it's a paid edition then you should
enter monthly and annual prices. You can allow tenants to use trial
version of this edition for a specified days. Then you can determine an
expire strategy: How many days to allow a tenant to use the application
after subscription expires. And finally, you can deactivate tenant or
assign to a free edition if they don't extend their subscription.

Features tab is used to determining features available for the edition:

<img src="images/edition-feature-editing-core-1.png" alt="Edit edition features" class="img-thumbnail" />

See [feature
management](https://aspnetboilerplate.com/Pages/Documents/Feature-Management)
and [edition
management](https://aspnetboilerplate.com/Pages/Documents/Zero/Edition-Management)
documents for more information.

#### Tenant Management

*If you're not developing a multi-tenant application, you can skip this
section.*

If this is a multi-tenant application and you logged in as a host user,
then tenants page is shown:

<img src="images/tenant-management-core-3.png" alt="Tenant management page" class="img-thumbnail" />

A tenant is represented by **Tenant** class. Tenant class [can be
extended](Extending-Existing-Entities.md) by adding new properties.
There is an only one tenant, named **Default** as initial. **Tenancy
Name** (code name, which can be used as subdomain) is the **unique**
name of a tenant. AÂ tenant can be **active** or **passive**. If it's
passive, no user of this tenant can login to the application.

When we click the "**Create New Tenant**" button, a dialog is shown:

<img src="images/tenant-create-modal-1.png" alt="Tenant Creation Modal" class="img-thumbnail" />

**Tenancy name** should be unique and can not contain spaces or other
special chars since it may be used as subdomain name (like
tenancyname.mydomain.com). **Name** can be anything. **Admin email** is
used as email address of the admin user of new tenant. Admin user is
automatically created with the tenant. We can set a random password for
admin and send activation email. When user first logins, they should
change the password. We can uncheck this to enter a known password.

When we create a new tenant, we should select/create a database to store
new tenant's data. We can select '**Use host database**' to store tenant
data in host database (can be used for single database approach) or we
can specify a connection string to create/use a **dedicated database**
for new tenant. ASP.NET Zero supports **hybrid** approach. That means you
can use host database for some tenants and create dedicated databases
for some other tenants. Even you can **group** some tenants in a
separated database.

Once you assign an edition to the tenant, you can select an expiration
date (see edition management section to know what happens after
subscription expiration).

##### Tenant Edition and Features

An **edition** can be **assigned** to a tenant (while creating or
editing). Tenant will inherit all features of the assigned edition, but
we can also override features and values for a tenant. Click
**actions/change features** for a tenant to **customize** it's features:

<img src="images/tenant-features-core-1.png" alt="Tenant features" class="img-thumbnail" />

##### Tenant User Impersonation

As a host user, we may want to perform operations in behalf of a tenant.
In this case, we can click the "**Login as this tenant**" button in the
actions. When we click it, we see **a modal to select a user** of the
tenant. We can select any user and perform operations allowed that user.
See **User Impersonation** section in this document for more
information.

##### Using Tenancy Name As Subdomain

A multi-tenant application generally uses subdomain to identify current
tenant. **tenant1**.mydomain.com, **tenant2**.mydomain.com and so on.
ASP.NET Zero automatically identify and get tenant name from subdomain.
See application configuration section.

#### Host Dashboard

Host dashboard is used to show some statistics about tenants, editions
and income:

<img src="images/host-dashboard-1.png" alt="Host dashboard" class="img-thumbnail" width="1200" height="495" />

This is a fully implemented dashboard except two sample statistics
(sample statistics 1 & 2) those are placeholders for your own
statistics.

#### Organization Units

Organization units (OU) are used to hierarchically group user and
entities. Then you can get user or entities based on their OUs. When we
click Administration/Organization units, we enter the related page:

<img src="images/organization-units-page-core-3.png" alt="Organization units page" class="img-thumbnail" />

Here, we can manage OUs (create, edit, delele, move) and members
(add/remove).

In the left OU tree, we can **right click** to an OU (or left click to
**arrow** at the right) to open **context menu** for OU operations. We
can also add new members with the upper right button of members area.

<img src="images/select-user-lookup-core-3.png" alt="Select a user dialog" class="img-thumbnail" />

This is actually a **generic lookup modal** and can be used to select
any type of entity (see app/shared/common/lookup/**common-lookup-modal.component**).

See [organization unit management
document](https://aspnetboilerplate.com/Pages/Documents/Zero/Organization-Units)
for more information.

#### Role Management

When we click Administration/Roles menu, we enter to the role management
page:

<img src="images/role-management-core-3.png" alt="Role management page" class="img-thumbnail" />

Roles are used to **group permissions**. When a user has a role, then
they will have all permissions of that role.

A role is represented by the **Role** class. Role class [can be
extended](Extending-Existing-Entities.md) by adding new properties.

Roles can be dynamic or static:

-   **Static role**: A static role has a known **name** (like 'admin')
    and can not change this name (we can change **display name**). It's
    exists on the system startup and can not be deleted. Thus, we can
    write codes based on a static role name.
-   **Dynamic role**: We can create a dynamic role after deployment.
    Then we can grant permissions for that role, we can assign the role
    to some users and we can delete it. We can not know names of dynamic
    roles in development time.

One or more roles can be set as **default**. Default roles are assigned
to new added/registered users as default. This is not a development time
property and can be set or changed after deployment.

In startup project, we have static **admin** role for host (for
multi-tenant apps). Also, we have static **admin** and **user** roles
for tenants. **Admin** roles have all permissions granted by default.
**User** role is the **default** role for new users and has no
permission by default. These can be changed easily in the [server
side](Development-Guide-Core.md).

##### Role Permissions

Since roles are used to group permissions, we can set permissions of a
role while creating or editing as shown below:

<img src="images/role-permissions-core-1.png" alt="Role Permissions" class="img-thumbnail" />

(not all permissions shown in the figure above)

Every tenant has it's **own roles** and any change in roles for a tenant
does not effect other tenants. Also, host has also it's own isolated
roles.

#### User Management

When we click Administration/Users menu, we enter to the user management
page:

<img src="images/user-management-core-3.png" alt="User management" class="img-thumbnail" />

**Users** are people who can **login** to the application and perform
some operations based on their **permissions**.

A user can have zero or more **roles**. If a user has more than one
role, he inherits union of permissions of all these roles. Also, we can
set **user-specific permission**. A user specific permission setting
overrides role settings for this permission. A screenshot of user
permission dialog:

<img src="images/user-permissions-1.png" alt="User Permissions" class="img-thumbnail" />

(not all permissions shown in the figure above)

A dialog is used to create/edit a user:

<img src="images/edit-user-3.png" alt="Editing User" class="img-thumbnail" />

We can change user's **password**, make her **active/passive** and so
on... A user can have a **profile picture**. It can be changed by the
user (See User Menu section). **Admin** user can not be deleted as a
business rule. If you don't want to use admin, just make it inactive.

##### User Impersonation

As admin (or any allowed user), we may want to login as a user and
perform operations in behalf of that user, without knowing his password.
When we click "**Login as this user**" icon in the actions of a user, we
are automatically redirected and logged in as this user. This is called
as "**user impersonation**". When we impersonate a user, a "**back to my
account**" option is added to the user profile menu:

<img src="images/back-to-my-account-link-3.png" alt="Back to my account link" class="img-thumbnail" />

In an impersonated account, we can only perform operations allowed to
that user. That means, everything **exactly** works as same as this user
logged in himself. The only difference is shown in audit logs which
indicates that operations are performed by somebody else. Notice that;
Also a **red 'back' icon** shown near to the user name to indicate that
you are in an impersonated account.

#### Language Management

Language management page is used to manage (add/edit/delete)
**application languages** and change **localized texts**:

<img src="images/language-list-core-3.png" alt="Language management" class="img-thumbnail" />

We can create new language, edit/delete an existing language and **set a
language as default**. Note that; tenants can not edit/delete default
languages, but host users can do.

When we click to **Change text** for any language, we are redirected to
a new view to edit language texts:

<img src="images/language-change-text-modal-core-3.png" alt="Language texts" class="img-thumbnail" />

We can select any language as a **base** (reference) and change
**target** language's texts. Base language is just to help the
translation progress. Since there maybe different [localization
sources](https://aspnetboilerplate.com/Pages/Documents/Localization#DocLocalizationSources),
we select the source to translate. When we click the edit icon, we can
see the edit modal for the selected text:

<img src="images/language-change-text-modal-core-1.png" alt="Language text editing" class="img-thumbnail" />

**Host** users (if allowed) can edit languages and localized texts.
These languages will be default for all tenants for a multi-tenant
application. **Tenants** inherit languages and localized texts and can
**override** localized texts or can add new languages.

See [language
management](https://aspnetboilerplate.com/Pages/Documents/Zero/Language-Management)
and
[localization](https://aspnetboilerplate.com/Pages/Documents/Localization)
documents for more information.

#### Audit Logs

In audit logs page, we can see all user interactions with the
application:

<img src="images/audit-logs-core-3.png" alt="Audit logs" class="img-thumbnail" />

All application service methods and MVC controller actions are
automatically logged and can be viewed here. See [audit logs
documentation](https://aspnetboilerplate.com/Pages/Documents/Audit-Logging)
to learn how to configure it. When we click the magnifier icon, we can
see all details an audit log:

<img src="images/audit-logs-detail-1.png" alt="Audit Log" class="img-thumbnail" />

Audit log report is provided by **AuditLogAppService** class.

#### Subscription

Tenants can manage (show, extend or upgrade) their edition/plan
subscriptions using this page:

<img src="images/subscription-1.png" alt="Subscription" class="img-thumbnail" />

All payment records for extending/upgrading current licenses are kept in
the system. These records can be seen on "Payment History" tab on
subscription page.

<img src="images/subscription-payment-history-core.png" alt="Payment History" class="img-thumbnail" />

Tenants can also create & print invoices for these payments by clicking
the "Show Invoice" button. System will automatically generate an invoice
number and show the generated invoice. In order to use this function,
both Host & Tenant must set invoice informations on host setting/tenant
setting page.

<img src="images/host-settings-invoice.png" alt="Tenant Invoice Settings" class="img-thumbnail" />

After all, invoices for payments related to subscription can be
generated. You can see a sample invoice below:

<img src="images/sample-invoice-core.png" alt="Sample Invoice" class="img-thumbnail" />

#### Visual Settings

ASP.NET Zero's look of UI can be modified in visual settings page. This
page is used to modify look of UI both for system and personal user
accounts. If a user doesn't have permission to see this page, then user
will see an item named "Visual Settings" in his personal menu.

<img src="images/user-menu-visual-settings-core.png" alt="User visual settings" class="img-thumbnail" />

Users who have permission to see this page will see the same item in the
application menu.

In this page, users can change visual settings for Layout, Header, Menu
and Footer of the application.

<img src="images/visual-settings-core.png" alt="Visual settings" class="img-thumbnail" />

#### Host Settings

Host settings page is used to configure some system settings:

<img src="images/host-settings-general-6.png" alt="General Host Settings" class="img-thumbnail" />

**Timezone** is an important setting in this page. ASP.NET Zero can work
in multiple zones. Each user can see dates and times in their own time
zone. Timezone setting in this page allows you to set default time zone
for the application including all tenants and users. Tenants and users
can change time zone in their own settings. Timezone setting is
available only if you are using UTC clock. [See
documentation](https://aspnetboilerplate.com/Pages/Documents/Timing) to
switch to UTC.

**Security** tab in host settings page contains password complexity
settings. Host can define system wide password complexity settings in
this tab. Each tenant can override this setting in tenant settings page.

<img src="images/host-settings-security-3.png" alt="Tenant settings" class="img-thumbnail" />

#### Tenant Settings

In a multi-tenant application, tenant settings are shown as below:

<img src="images/tenant-settings-core-1.png" alt="Tenant settings" class="img-thumbnail" />

If we disable multi-tenancy, some host settings are also shown in this
page (since there is no host setting page). Tenants can also define
password complexity settings for their users or they can use password
complexity settings defined by host user.

##### Enabling LDAP (Active Directory) Authentication

LDAP (Active Directory) Authentication is disabled by default. To make
it work, we should **disable multi-tenancy** since LDAP auth is not used
in a multi-tenant system normally. See [server
side](Development-Guide-Core.md) to enable LDAP. Once we enable, we
can see **LDAP settings** section in the settings page:

<img src="images/tenant-settings-ldap-1.png" alt="LDAP Settings" class="img-thumbnail" />

We can check "**Enable LDAP Authentication**" to enable it. If the
server works in domain and application runs with a domain user or local
system, then generally even **no need** to set Domain name, user and
password. You can logout and then login with your **domain user name and
password**. If not, you should set these credentials.

**.NET Core Compatibility**

LDAP Authentication is not supportted by .NET Core yet. Thus, it's
designed to be conditional. If you are using .Net Framework (4.6+) then
it will be available, otherwise it will be disabled.

#### Maintenance

Maintenance page is available to **host side** for multi tenant
applications (for single tenant applications it's shown in tenant side)
and shown as below:

<img src="images/maintenance-cache-1.png" alt="Maintenance cache" class="img-thumbnail" />

In the **Caches** tab, we can clear some or all caches. Clearing caches
may be needed if you manually change database and want to refresh
application cache. **Website Logs** tab is used to see and download
logs:

<img src="images/maintenance-logs-1.png" alt="Maintenance logs" class="img-thumbnail" />

#### Tenant Dashboard

ASP.NET Zero startup project also includes a **sample** dashboard. It's
just for demo purposes, you can make it as a start point for your actual
dashboard. It's implemented with app/main/**dashboard.component** in
**main.module**.

<img src="images/dashboardV3.png" alt="Dashboard" class="img-thumbnail" width="1235" height="965" />

Client gets all data from server, server generates random data.

#### Notifications

Notification icon is located next to the language selection button. The
number in the red circle shows unread notification count.

<img src="images/notifications-icon-1.png" alt="notifications" class="img-thumbnail" />

User can see 3 recent notifications by clicking this icon.

<img src="images/recent-notifications-1.png" alt="notifications" class="img-thumbnail" />

User can marks all notifications as read by clicking the "Set all as
read" link or can mark a single notification by clicking the "set as
read" link next to each notification.

Notifications are sent real-time using SignalR. In addition, a **desktop
push notification** is shown when a notification is received.

##### Notification Settings

"Settings" link opens notification settings dialog.

<img src="images/notification-settings-1.png" alt="notifications" class="img-thumbnail" />

In this dialog there is a global setting for user to enable/disable
receiving notifications. If this setting is enabled, then user can
enable/disable each notification individually.

You can also define your custom notifications in the [server
side](Development-Guide-Core.md). See [notifications
documentation](https://aspnetboilerplate.com/Pages/Documents/Notification-System)
for detailed information.

##### Notification List

All notifications of the user are listed in this page.

<img src="images/notifications-list-core-3.png" alt="Notification list" class="img-thumbnail" />

**.NET Core Compatibility**

Since SignalR is not ready yet for .NET Core, real time notifications
will not work if you select .NET Core as your base framework.

#### Chat

Chat icon is located next to user's profile image on top right corner of
the page. The number in the red circle shows total unread chat message
count.

<img src="images/chat-icon-1.png" alt="User menu" class="img-thumbnail" />

When user clicks this icon, chat panel appears on the right of page.
This panel contains friends of user and list of blocked users.

<img src="images/chat-friends-1.png" alt="User menu" class="img-thumbnail" />

User can add new friends by writing the username into username textbox
above friend list. If "Chat with other tenants" feature is enabled for
tenant, users of other tenants can be added as a friend by writing
\[tenancy name\]\\\[user name\] (ex: Default\\admin). If "Chat with host
users" feature is enabled, host users can be added as friend by writing
.\\\[user name\] in the same textbox.

While online friends/users have a green circle on their profile image,
offline friends/users have a gray circle.

User can pin or unpin the chat panel by clicking the pin icon on top
right corner of the chat panel. Application tries to remember last state
of chat panel and restores it when user login to application.

When a friend/user is selected, conversation panel is opened.

<img src="images/chat-conversation-1.png" alt="User menu" class="img-thumbnail" />

Chat system also allows sending images, files and link of current page
to friends

<img src="images/chat-attachments-core.png" alt="Chat attachments" class="img-thumbnail" />

User can block or unblock friend/user in this area. There is a wrench
icon right of the selected user's username. This icon opens an action
menu and this menu contains block user or unblock user actions according
to user's block status.

##### Chat Features

<img src="images/chat-features-1.png" alt="User menu" class="img-thumbnail" />

There are three chat features in the system. These are "Chat", "Chat
with host", "Chat with other tenants". These features can be
enabled/disabled per edition/tenant. By using these features host can
enable/disable chat with other tenant's users or host users.

**.NET Core Compatibility**

Since SignalR is not ready yet for .NET Core, chat feature will not work
if you select .NET Core as your base framework.

#### User Menu

A user can click his name at top right corner to open user menu:

<img src="images/user-menu-4.png" alt="User menu" class="img-thumbnail" />

##### Linked Accounts

Linked accounts are used to link multiple accounts to each other. In
this way, a user can easily navigate through his accounts using this
feature.

User can link new accounts or delete already linked accounts by clicking
the "Manage accounts" link.

<img src="images/linked-accounts-3.png" alt="User menu" class="img-thumbnail" />

In order to link a new account, user must enter login credentials of
related account.

<img src="images/link-new-account-1.png" alt="link new account" class="img-thumbnail" />

##### Profile Settings

My settings is used to change user profile settings:

<img src="images/user-settings-3.png" alt="User settings" class="img-thumbnail" />

As shown here, **admin** user name can not be changed. It's considered a
special user name since it's used in database migration seed. Other
users can change their usernames.

##### Login Attempts

All login attempts (success of failed) are logged in the application. A
user can see last login attempts for his/her account.

<img src="images/login-attempts-1.png" alt="Login attempts" class="img-thumbnail" />

##### Change Picture

A user can change own profile picture. Currently, jpg/jpeg, gif and png
files are supported, you can extend it.

#### Setup Page

ASP.NET Zero application can be set-up using install page. This page is
developed to create initial database, apply migrations and configure the
application according to user's input on this page. Setup page can be
accessed via **http://yourwebsite.com/app/admin/install**.

<img src="images/install-page-core.png" alt="install page" class="img-thumbnail" width="1200" />

### Infrastructure

#### NPM Packages

ASP.NET Zero solution supports both [yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/) and
[npm](https://www.npmjs.com/) to obtain front end library dependencies
(like Angular and Bootstrap). We suggest to use yarn because npm has
some problems, yarn solves those problems and it is compatible with npm
as well. You can easily add, update or remove packages on yarn's command
line interface.

#### Angular CLI & WebPack

ASP.NET Zero uses [angular-cli](https://cli.angular.io/) for the
development and deployment. It's properly configured for angular-cli and
already working. To run the application, open command line and type
"**npm start**" command (or "npm run hmr" to enable hot module
replacement feature). Once it's compiled and ready, you can go to
<http://localhost:4200> to open the application in your browser. See
[angular-cli](https://cli.angular.io/) official web site for more.

#### NSwag

Since all communication to server made via AJAX requests, we are using a
client side javascript layer to call server API. It's automatically
generated by [nswag](https://github.com/NSwag/NSwag) tool using
[swagger](http://swagger.io/). ASP.NET Zero solution is properly
configured for nswag. When you change your server side services, all you
need to do is to run **nswag/refresh.bat** file (or run the command
inside it for a non-Windows OS) while server side (.Host project) is
running.

Generated code is located in
shared/service-proxies/**service-proxies**.ts file. You should not make
manual change in this file since it will be overwritten on the next code
generation.

**Refreshing Service Proxies**

While Nswag automatically generate proxy files, it does not refresh
**service-proxies.module**.ts. If you add a new service, you should
**manually** add it to this file as like others.

#### AppComponentBase

If you inherit your components from **AppComponentBase** class, you can
get many commonly used services as pre-injected (like localization,
permission checker, feature checker, ui notify/message, settings and so
on...). For example; you can just use **l(...)** function In views and
**this.l(...)** function in component classes for localization. See
pre-built components for example usages.

#### Localization

ASP.NET Zero **User Interface** is completely localized. ASP.NET Zero
uses **dynamic, database based, per-tenant** localization.

XML files are used as base translation for desired languages (defined in
the [server side](Development-Guide-Core.md)):

<img src="images/localization-files-core-1.png" alt="Localization XML files" class="img-thumbnail" />

PhoneBook will be your ProjectName. You can add more XML files by
copying one XML file and translate to desired language. See [valid
culture codes](http://www.csharp-examples.net/culture-names/).

When you are adding a new localizable text, add it to the XML file of
the default language then use in your application (Also, add translated
values to corresponding XML files). No need to add it to database
migration code since value in the XML file will be used as default. See
[server side](Development-Guide-Core.md) documentation for more.

See
[localization](https://aspnetboilerplate.com/Pages/Documents/Localization)
and [language
management](https://aspnetboilerplate.com/Pages/Documents/Zero/Language-Management)
documentations for more information on localization.

#### Exception Handling

ASP.NET Zero uses ABP's [exception
handling](https://aspnetboilerplate.com/Pages/Documents/AspNet-Core#exception-filter)
system. Thus, you don't need to handle & care about exceptions in most
time. All server side exceptions are gracefully handled and an
appropriate message is shown to the user.

#### Authorization

You can inject and use PermissionCheckerService to check user
permissions. It's pre injected for AppComponentBase (permission field)
and also you can use shortcut isGranted function. Permissions are
defined in [server side](Development-Guide-Core.md). See authorization
[documentation](https://aspnetboilerplate.com/Pages/Documents/Authorization)
for more.

#### Features

You can inject and use FeatureCheckerService to check tenant features.
It's pre injected for AppComponentBase (feature field). Features are
defined in [server side](Development-Guide-Core.md). See feature
management
[documentation](https://aspnetboilerplate.com/Pages/Documents/Feature-Management)
for more.

#### Setting

You can inject and use SettingService to check settings. It's pre
injected for AppComponentBase (setting field). Settings are defined in
[server side](Development-Guide-Core.md). See setting management
[documentation](https://aspnetboilerplate.com/Pages/Documents/Setting-Management)
for more.

#### SignalR Integration

SignalR is properly configured and integrated to the startup project.
Real time notification and chat systems use it. You can also direcly use
SignalR in your applications.

Notice that; As the time being, SignalR [has not been
released](https://github.com/aspnet/Home/wiki/Roadmap#12) for ASP.NET
Core yet. We integrated **OWIN** to ASP.NET Core pipeline in order to
use SignalR in the application.

See [SignalR
integration](https://aspnetboilerplate.com/Pages/Documents/SignalR-Integration)
document for more information.

**.NET Core Compatibility**

Since SignalR is not ready yet for .NET Core, SignalR integration is
disabled if you select .NET Core as your base framework.

### Token Based Authentication

ASP.NET Zero Angular UI uses the [server
side](Development-Guide-Core.md) via token based authentication. Any
application can authenticate and use any functionality in the
application as API. For instance, you can create a mobile application
consumes the same API. In this section, we'll demonstrate usage of the
API from [Postman](https://www.getpostman.com/docs/introduction) (a
Google Chrome extension).

#### Authentication

We suggest you to disable two factor authentication for the user which
will be used for remote authentication. Otherwise, two factor
authentication flow should be implemented by the client. You can check
account module source code to understand the flow. We assume that you
have disabled two factor authentication for the **admin** user of
**default** tenant since we will use it in this sample.

Following headers should be configured for all requests (Abp.TenantId is
Id of the default tenant. This is not required for single tenant
applications or if you want to work with host users):

<img src="images/postman-ng2-auth-headers.png" alt="Postman auth headers" width="523" height="112" />

Then we can send username and password as a **POST** request to http://localhost:22742/api/TokenAuth/Authenticate

<img src="images/postman-ng2-auth.png" alt="SPostman authentication" class="img-thumbnail" />
 
In the returning response, **accessToken** will be used to authorize for the API.

#### Using API

After authenticate and get the access token, we can use it to call any
**authorized** actions. All **services** are available to be used
remotely. For example, we can use the **User service** to get a **list
of users**:

<img src="images/postman-ng2-userlist.png" alt="Postman get user list" class="img-thumbnail" width="755" height="1040" />

We sent a GET request to
http://localhost:22742**/api/services/app/User/GetUsers** and added
Authorization to the header as "**Bearer &lt;accessToken&gt;**".
Returning JSON contains the list of users.

### Swagger UI

[Swagger UI](http://swagger.io/swagger-ui/) is **integrated** to ASP.NET
Zero **by default**. You can browse **swagger ui** from
http://localhost:22742**/swagger/ui/** URL. Notice that this is [server
side](Development-Guide-Core.md) URL of the application. In this page
(which is the default page of server side API application) you can see
all available API:

<img src="images/swagger-ui-ng2-1.png" alt="Swagger UI" class="img-thumbnail" />

### Deployment

**About Deployment**

If you have merged Angular UI project into ASP.NET Core project then you
only need to publish your .Host project.

**Email Settings**

If you don't configure email settings, some functions may not work (Like
new tenant registration).

We are using [angular-cli](https://cli.angular.io/) for development &
deployment. Angular CLI has it's own build command that can be used to
build your application:

    ng build -prod

This command uses **dist** folder as output. Just remember to change
**assets/appconfig.json** file with your own configuration.

#### Publish to The Azure

Read [this document](Step-by-step-publish-to-azure-angular.md) to publish to the Azure.

#### AOT

Angular CLI uses
**[AOT](https://angular.io/docs/ts/latest/cookbook/aot-compiler.html)
(Ahead of Time)** Compilation by default. You can add --no-aot parameter
to ng build command to disable it. But we recommend AOT since it has
significiant performance gain.

#### IIS Deploy

After ng build command, dist folder contains all necessary files to
create a web site under IIS. One important thing is that; Angular uses
client side routing. If you refresh a page (F5) then IIS will handle the
request and naturally can not find the requested path and returns a HTTP
404 error. We should configure IIS to redirect all requests to the
index.html page (or, to the root path).

ASP.NET Zero Angular UI contains a **web.config** file. You can copy it
to the web site's root folder to overcome the problem described above.

### ASP.NET Zero Power Tools

**ASP.NET Zero Power Tools** creates all related layers (including UI) by defining an entity.

See [documentation](https://aspnetzero.com/Documents/Development-Guide-Rad-Tool) to learn how to use it.

### Penetration Test

Asp.Net Zero (v5) has been scanned for vulnerabilities with the latest version of [OWASP ZAP (v2.7.0)](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Zed_Attack_Proxy_Project). The OWASP Zed Attack Proxy (ZAP) is one of the world's most popular security tools and is actively maintained by hundreds of international volunteers, see [Security-Report](Security-Report-Angular.md) for details.

### Used Library & Frameworks

Many open source frameworks and libraries are used to build ASP.NET Zero
project. Here, a list of all libraries:

-   [Angular](https://angular.io/)
-   [Angular-cli](https://cli.angular.io/)
-   [Typescript](http://typescriptlang.org/)
-   [SignalR](http://asp.net/signalr)
-   [Metronic Theme](http://keenthemes.com/metronic-theme/)
-   [Twitter Bootstrap](http://getbootstrap.com/)
-   [Bootstrap Date Range
    Picker](https://github.com/dangrossman/bootstrap-daterangepicker)
-   [Bootstrap Switch](http://www.bootstrap-switch.org/)
-   [Bootstrap Select](http://silviomoreto.github.io/bootstrap-select)
-   [Ng2 Bootstrap](https://github.com/valor-software/ng2-bootstrap)
-   [jQuery](http://jquery.com/)
-   [jQuery UI](http://jqueryui.com/)
-   [jQuery BlockUI](http://malsup.com/jquery/block/)
-   [jQuery Slimscroll](http://rocha.la/jQuery-slimScroll)
-   [jQuery Sparkline](http://omnipotent.net/jquery.sparkline/)
-   [jQuery Uniform](https://github.com/pixelmatrix/uniform)
-   [jQuery jTable](http://jtable.org/)
-   [jQuery Timeago](https://github.com/rmm5t/jquery-timeago)
-   [Js-Cookie](https://github.com/js-cookie/js-cookie)
-   [Json2](https://github.com/douglascrockford/JSON-js)
-   [Jcrop](https://github.com/tapmodo/Jcrop)
-   [LocalForage](https://github.com/localForage/localForage)
-   [Moment.js](http://momentjs.com/)
-   [Moment.js Timezone](http://momentjs.com/timezone/)
-   [Lodash](https://lodash.com/)
-   [JsTree](https://www.jstree.com/)
-   [Morris](http://morrisjs.github.io/morris.js/)
-   [Raphael](http://dmitrybaranovskiy.github.io/raphael/)
-   [Font-Awesome](http://fontawesome.io/)
-   [Famfamfam flags](http://www.famfamfam.com/lab/icons/flags/)
-   [Simple Line Icons](http://thesabbir.github.io/simple-line-icons/)
-   [SpinJs](http://fgnass.github.io/spin.js/)
-   [SweetAlert](http://t4t5.github.io/sweetalert/)
-   [Toastr](http://codeseven.github.io/toastr/)
